Simplify single source (#1580)
pypa/packaging.python.org: source/discussions/single_source_version.rst

Reviewer: Is this replacing `source/guides/single-sourcing-package-version.rst`?

P.S. I see the existing convention to naming the documents is kebab-case. They are not Python modules, so they follow different principles than snake_case.

Author: I'm following what's currently there with regard to naming files.

.. _`Single sourcing the version`:

===================================
Single-sourcing the Project Version
===================================

:Page Status: Complete
:Last Reviewed: 2024-??

One of the challenges in building packages is that the version string can be required in multiple places.

> * It needs to be specified when building the package (e.g. in :file:`pyproject.toml`)
>    - That will assure that it is properly assigned in the distribution file name, and in the installed package metadata.
> 
> * A package may set a top level ``__version__`` attribute to provide runtime access to the version of the imported package. If this is done, the value of ``__version__`` attribute and that used by the build system to set the distribution's version should be kept in sync in :ref:`the build systems's recommended way <Build system version handling>`.
> 
> In any case, The installed distribution version should be accessible using ``importlib.metadata.version("distribution_name")``.

Reviewer 2: The text below mentions three locations where the single source of truth of the version can be, but only two of these locations appear in this list.

- I added the third
- I established the connection between `importlib.metadata` and the package metadata for clarity

```suggestion
* It needs to be specified when building the package (e.g. in :file:`pyproject.toml`)
   This will make it available installed package’s metadata, from where it will be accessible at runtime using ``importlib.metadata.version("distribution_name")``.

* A package may set a top level ``__version__`` attribute to provide an alternative means of runtime access to the version of the imported package. If this is done, the value of ``__version__`` attribute and that used by the build system to set the distribution's version should be kept in sync in :ref:`the build systems's recommended way <Build system version handling>`.

* If the code is in in a version control system (VCS), e.g. Git, the version may appear in a *tag* such as ``v1.2.3``.
```

Author: merging, but a thought:

> "This will make it available in the installed package’s metadata,.."

" ... installed distribution’s..."  ?

or

"... installed distribution package’s ..." ? 

the overloading of the term "package" is a challenge ...

Author: " but only two of these locations appear in this list."

The three potential sources of "truth" are for when the distribution is being built, not at run time -- there is no VCS for an installed package.

Not sure how to make this more clear, but the first point is:

When building the distribution:

 - The version must be specified in pyproject.toml (perhaps dynamically, but it needs to be there)
 - A ``__version__`` attribute can optionally be put (or pre-exist) in the importable code.

The second list is the how to make sure that that's all in sync.

Perhaps we could put your more specific language about tags in the first bullet in the next list.

I do like most of the rest of your language - thanks!

Reviewer 2: > the overloading of the term "package" is a challenge ...

It sure is, the core devs should really just have used “packages”/“modules” to distinguish between distribution packages and import packages. Instead they wasted the distinction on single-file “modules” vs folder-with-`__init__.py` “packages”.

The problem with saying “distributions” is that people in the linux world use that term for Linux distributions. So to be clear, we should probably link “import packages” and “distribution packages” to the glossary and consistently use these terms. I think you do that via `` :term:`Import Package` ``

>
